[IMP] sales: complete rewrite for pricing doc (#4521)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/prices/pricing.rst

- :guilabel:`Multiple prices per product`: provides the option to set several prices per product.
- :guilabel:`Advanced price rules (discounts, formulas)`: provides the option to create detailed
  price rules and apply discounts, margins, and roundings.

After clicking the checkbox beside the :guilabel:`Pricelists` feature, select one of those two
options, then click :guilabel:`Save` to save all changes.

Pricelists
==========

After activating and saving the :guilabel:`Pricelists` feature, the :guilabel:`Settings` page
reloads and, from here, either select the :guilabel:`Pricelists` link (beneath the
:guilabel:`Pricelists` feature on the :guilabel:`Settings` page), or navigate to
:menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Pricelists`.

Either option reveals a separate :guilabel:`Pricelists` page, in which pricelists can be created
and/or modified at any time.

.. image:: pricing/pricelists-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the pricelists page looks in Odoo Sales.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Public Pricelist` is the default pricelist used with Odoo *eCommerce*.

.. tip::
   The pricelists sequence can be changed by dragging and dropping pricelists in any order, while

>    in list view.

Author: Great point. I wasn't sure either, and when I just ran some tests, I was getting conflicting results. So, in the sake of avoiding any unnecessary confusion, I will go ahead and remove this tip, per your suggestion. Great catch!

From the :guilabel:`Pricelists` page, either select the desired pricelist to edit, or click

> :guilabel:`New` to create a new pricelist, which reveals a blank pricelist detail form that can be

Author: Understood. I changed the majority of the portions where "detail form" was used - however, I kept a few in, mainly for when describing a "Customer detail form" - mostly because saying a "customer's customer form" didn't sound great...haha - but, if you think it's necessary to remove those, as well, just let me know.

pricelist at the top of the form, in the blank field. Next, select which :guilabel:`Currency`
should be used.

Then, if working in a multi-company environment, select to which company this pricelist should
applied in the :guilabel:`Company` field. If left blank, the pricelist is automatically applied to
all companies in the database.

Price rules
-----------

Under the :guilabel:`Price Rules` tab, there is the option to add specific price rules to particular
products, when this pricelist is being used. To do that, click :guilabel:`Add a line` in the
:guilabel:`Products` column. Doing so reveals a new row, in which a drop-down menu appears under the :guilabel:`Products` column. Open that drop-down and select the desired product.

Next, in the :guilabel:`Variants` column, select a specific variant (if applicable), like a
particular size, color, etc. for the product.

Then, choose to designate a minimum quantity in the :guilabel:`Min. Quantity` column for the new
price to be applied. Leaving the :guilabel:`Min. Quantity` at `0` means this price rule is applied
to the designated product, regardless of how many a customer buys.

.. example::

>    If the :guilabel:`Min. Quantity` column is set to `2`, the new price in the :guilabel:`Price`

Author: Haha wow - can't believe I missed that! haha great catch!

.. image:: pricing/formula-computation-options.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The various formula computation options present in Odoo Sales.

With the :guilabel:`Formula` computation option selected, start by selecting an option from the
:guilabel:`Based on` field: :guilabel:`Sales Price`, :guilabel:`Cost`, or :guilabel:`Other
Pricelist`. This determines what the advanced price rule formula will be based on.

Next, in the :guilabel:`Discount` field, determine how much of a discount should be applied. It
should be noted that a mark-up can be applied by setting a negative discount in this field.

.. example::
   Here's an example of what it would like to formulate `2 x Cost` (100% markup), with $5 minimal
   margin using an advanced pricelist rule formula. This is often seen in retail situations.

.. image:: pricing/formula-markup-cost-example.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How it looks to formulate a markup cost with 5 dollar minimum margin in Odoo Sales.

Then, in the :guilabel:`Extra Fee` field, specify a fixed amount to add or subtract (if negative)
to the amount calculated with the discount. After that, enter a desired figure in the

> :guilabel:`Rounding Method` field. This sets the price, so that it is a multiple of the value in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Rounding Method` field. The rounding method sets the price so that it is a multiple of the value in
```

the field.

.. note::
   Rounding is applied *after* the discount and *before* the surcharge.

.. tip::

>    To have prices that end in 9.99, set rounding to `10`, surcharge `-0.01`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To have prices that end in 9.99, set the :guilabel:`Rounding Method` to `10` and the :guilabel:`Extra Fee` to `-0.01`.
```

Lastly, specify the minimum amount of margin over the base price in the :guilabel:`Margins` field.

Once all formula-related configurations are complete, Odoo provides an example of the formula in
a blue block to the right of the configurations.

.. example::

>    Here's how it would look to apply 20% discounts, with prices rounded up to 9.99.

Reviewer: Same here, the text should describe the entire configuration, and not directly reference the image by saying "here's how it would look."

   .. image:: pricing/formula-discount-example.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Example of a 20% discount with prices rounded to 9.99 in Odoo Sales.

Conditions
----------

At the bottom of the :guilabel:`Create Pricelist Rules` pop-up form is the :guilabel:`Conditions`
section.

Here, start by selecting one of the options in the :guilabel:`Apply On` field:

- :guilabel:`All Products`: the advanced pricelist rule will be applied to all products.
- :guilabel:`Product Category`: the advanced pricelist rule will be applied to a specific category
  of products.
- :guilabel:`Product`: the advanced pricelist rule will be applied to a specific product.
- :guilabel:`Product Variant`: the advanced pricelist rule will be applied to a specific product
  variant.

> If any of those options, apart from :guilabel:`All Products`, is selected, a new option-specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any of those options, apart from :guilabel:`All Products`, are selected, a new option-specific
```

field appears, in which the specific :guilabel:`Product Category`, :guilabel:`Product`, or

> :guilabel:`Product Variant` must be chosen, depending on which :guilabel:`Apply On` option is
> chosen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Product Variant` must be chosen.
```

Then, select a minimum quantity to be applied to the advanced pricelist rule in the :guilabel:`Min.

> Quantity` field. And, lastly, select a range of dates for the pricelist item validation in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quantity` field. Lastly, select a range of dates for the pricelist item validation in the
```

:guilabel:`Validity` field.

Once all configurations are complete, either click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to save the advanced

> pricelist rule, and return to the :guilabel:`Pricelists` page. Or, click :guilabel:`Save & New` to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pricelist rule, or click :guilabel:`Save & New` to
```

> immediately create another advanced pricelist rule on a fresh, completely blank :guilabel:`Create
> Pricelist Rules` pop-up form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
immediately create another advanced pricelist rule on a fresh form.
```

.. note::

>    If a rule is set for a particular item, and another one for its category, Odoo takes the rule of
>    the item. Make sure at least one pricelist item covers all your products.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If a price rule is set for a particular product, and another one for its product category, Odoo takes the rule of
   the product itself. Make sure at least one pricelist item covers all products.
```

> Show discount percentage to customers

Reviewer: This whole section should be moved into the Pricelists > Configuration tab section of the doc.

=====================================

With Odoo *Sales* the option to show the public price *and* the computed discount percentage on
printed sales orders and in the *eCommerce* product catalog is available.

To do that, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration --> Settings`, and in the
:guilabel:`Pricing` section, click the checkbox next to the :guilabel:`Discounts` feature, and then
click :guilabel:`Save` to save all changes.

After activating the :guilabel:`Discounts` feature, navigate to the :guilabel:`Pricelists` page,

> either by clicking the :guilabel:`Pricelists` page on the *Sales* :guilabel:`Settings` page, or
> navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Pricelists`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
either by clicking the :guilabel:`Pricelists` link from the *Sales* :guilabel:`Settings` page, or by
going to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Pricelists`.
```

On the :guilabel:`Pricelists` page, select the desired pricelist to edit. On the pricelist detail
form, click into the :guilabel:`Configuration` tab. In the :guilabel:`Configuration` tab, at the

> bottom, a new :guilabel:`Discounts` section is now available.

Reviewer: This section is available even if the Pricelist setting is "Multiple prices per product" and even if no discount has been configured yet. So this part should be reworded slightly.

.. image:: pricing/configuration-discount-options.png
   :align: center
   :alt: What the discount options are on the configuration tab of a pricelist in Odoo Sales.

The options available in this section are:

> - :guilabel:`Discount included in the price`: automatically includes the configured discount in the
>   price.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Discount included in the price`: shows the customer only the final price with the discount already included.
```

After clicking the checkbox beside the :guilabel:`Pricelists` feature, select one of those two
options, then click :guilabel:`Save` to save all changes.

Pricelists
==========

After activating and saving the :guilabel:`Pricelists` feature, the :guilabel:`Settings` page
reloads and, from here, either select the :guilabel:`Pricelists` link (beneath the
:guilabel:`Pricelists` feature on the :guilabel:`Settings` page), or navigate to
:menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Pricelists`.

Either option reveals the :guilabel:`Pricelists` page, in which pricelists can be created and/or
modified at any time.

.. image:: pricing/pricelists-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the pricelists page looks in Odoo Sales.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Public Pricelist` is the default pricelist used with Odoo *Sales* and *eCommerce*.

From the :guilabel:`Pricelists` page, either select the desired pricelist to edit, or click
:guilabel:`New` to create a new pricelist, which reveals a blank pricelist form that can be
configured in a number of different ways.

.. image:: pricing/pricelist-detail-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the pricelist detail form looks in Odoo Sales.

> When creating a new pricelist, start by adding a name for the pricelst at the top of the form, in

Reviewer 2: Typo
```suggestion
When creating a new pricelist, start by adding a name for the pricelist at the top of the form, in
```

on pricelist forms provides the option to add specific products, with a specific price, to a
pricelist.

To add a specific product and price to a pricelist form, click the :guilabel:`Price Rules` tab, then
click :guilabel:`Add a line` in the :guilabel:`Products` column. Then, select the desired product
for which a specific price should be applied.

Next, if necessary, select a product variant under the :guilabel:`Variants` column (e.g. a specific
product size, color, etc.). If no variants are selected, then this price will apply to all variants
of the product.

Under the :guilabel:`Min. Quantity` column, designate if there should be a minimum amount of the
product purchased, in order to apply the specific price.

To configure the price of the product for this specific pricelist, enter the desired amount under
the :guilabel:`Price` column. Then, there is the option to add a :guilabel:`Start Date` and
:guilabel:`End Date` to the configured product price, if desired.

To add another product line, click :guilabel:`Add a line` again, and repeat the process. There is no
limit to how many products can be added in the :guilabel:`Price Rules` tab of a pricelist form.

> For more information, check out the following section: :ref:`Multiple prices per product
> <sales/multiple-prices-per-product>`

Reviewer 2: Missing period, please get this one too 🙏
```suggestion
For more information, check out the following section: :ref:`Multiple prices per product
<sales/multiple-prices-per-product>`.
```

:doc:`documentation </applications/sales/subscriptions>`.

Under the :guilabel:`Time-based rules` tab, the same functionality of the :guilabel:`Price Rules`
tab is present, with the only difference being that a repeating time period can be applied in the
:guilabel:`Period` column.

After a :guilabel:`Product` and potential :guilabel:`Variant` are selected in the
:guilabel:`Time-based rules` tab, select the blank field in the :guilabel:`Period` column to reveal
a drop-down menu of pre-designated recurrence periods (e.g. `Monthly`, `Quarterly`, `Weekly`, etc.).

New recurrence periods can also be directly created from this column, by typing in the new name for
the :guilabel:`Period` and then selecting :guilabel:`Create` to create the time period, which can be
edited later. Or, select :guilabel:`Create and edit...` to reveal a pop-up form, in which the new
recurrence period can be directly configured.

.. image:: pricing/time-period-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Custom time period pop-up form in Odoo Sales.

From this :guilabel:`Create Period` pop-up form, add a :guilabel:`Name`, :guilabel:`Duration`, then

> a :guilabel:`Unit` (e.g. `Days`, `Weeks`, etc. ). When finished, click :guilabel:`Save and Close`.

Reviewer 2: Remove extra space
```suggestion
a :guilabel:`Unit` (e.g. `Days`, `Weeks`, etc.). When finished, click :guilabel:`Save and Close`.
```

   .. image:: pricing/formula-markup-cost-example.png
      :align: center
      :alt: How it looks to formulate a markup cost with 5 dollar minimum margin in Odoo Sales.

Then, in the :guilabel:`Extra Fee` field, specify a fixed amount to add (or subtract) to the amount
calculated with the discount. After that, enter a desired figure in the :guilabel:`Rounding Method`
field. The rounding method sets the price so that it is a multiple of the value in the field.

.. note::
   Rounding is applied *after* the discount and *before* the surcharge.

.. tip::
   To have prices that end in 9.99, set the :guilabel:`Rounding Method` to `10` and the
   :guilabel:`Extra Fee` to `-0.01`.

Lastly, specify the minimum amount of margin over the base price in the :guilabel:`Margins` field.

Once all formula-related configurations are complete, Odoo provides an example of the formula in a
blue block to the right of the configurations.

.. example::
   To apply 20% discounts, with prices rounded up to 9.99, set the :guilabel:`Based on` field to
   :guilabel:`Sales Price`, the :guilabel:`Discount` field to `20`, the :guilabel:`Extra Fee` field

>    to `-0.01`, and the :guilabel:`Rounding Method` field to `10`.

Reviewer 3: I almost think you can remove this call out, since the image has an example. It could be a bit repetitive.

Author: I fully understand what you mean, but I've been instructed to leave such copy -- just in case the image doesn't load for any reason.

on pricelist forms provides the option to add specific products, with a specific price, to a
pricelist.

To add a specific product and price to a pricelist form, click the :guilabel:`Price Rules` tab, then
click :guilabel:`Add a line` in the :guilabel:`Products` column. Then, select the desired product
for which a specific price should be applied.

Next, if necessary, select a product variant under the :guilabel:`Variants` column (e.g. a specific
product size, color, etc.). If no variants are selected, then this price will apply to all variants
of the product.

Under the :guilabel:`Min. Quantity` column, designate if there should be a minimum amount of the
product purchased, in order to apply the specific price.

To configure the price of the product for this specific pricelist, enter the desired amount under
the :guilabel:`Price` column. Then, there is the option to add a :guilabel:`Start Date` and
:guilabel:`End Date` to the configured product price, if desired.

To add another product line, click :guilabel:`Add a line` again, and repeat the process. There is no
limit to how many products can be added in the :guilabel:`Price Rules` tab of a pricelist form.

> For more information, check out the following section:
> :ref:`Multiple prices per product <sales/multiple-prices-per-product>`

Reviewer 2: Early line break
```suggestion
For more information, check out the following section: :ref:`Multiple prices per product
<sales/multiple-prices-per-product>`
```

Price rules tab (advanced price rules)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With the :guilabel:`Advanced price rules (discounts, formulas)` setting activated, the
:guilabel:`Price Rules` tab on pricelist forms provides the option to configure detailed price rules
based on formulas.

Check out the :ref:`Advanced price rules (discounts, formulas) <sales/advanced-price-rules>` section
for detailed steps on how to add advanced price rules to a pricelist.

Time-based rules tab
--------------------

Time-based rules are used specifically with :doc:`subscription products
</applications/sales/subscriptions/products>`. Be sure to check out the Odoo *Subscriptions*

> documentation.

Reviewer 2: optional– I think it would be good to link to the top-level Subscriptions documentation if referencing it :)
```suggestion
:doc:`documentation </applications/sales/subscriptions>`.
```

:guilabel:`Website` field, this pricelist can be applied to a specific website, if working in a
multi-website environment. If left blank, the pricelist will be applied to all websites in the
database.

Click the :guilabel:`Selectable` checkbox to have this pricelist as a selectable option for
customers to choose as they shop. If the :guilabel:`Selectable` box is left unchecked, customers
**cannot** select this pricelist for themselves as they shop.

Lastly, there is the option to add an :guilabel:`E-commerce Promotional Code`. To add a code, type
in the desired promo code that, when entered during the checkout process, applies the pricelist to
the customer, even if the customer does not fall into the previously-specified criteria.

Show discount percentage to customers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With Odoo *Sales*, the option to show the public price *and* the computed discount percentage on the
product catalog is available.

To do that, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration --> Settings`, and in the
:guilabel:`Pricing` section, click the checkbox next to the :guilabel:`Discounts` feature, and then
click :guilabel:`Save` to save all changes.

> After activating the :guilabel:`Discounts` feature, navigate to the :guilabel:`Pricelists` page,
> either by clicking the :guilabel:`Pricelists` link from the :guilabel:`Sales Settings` page, or by
> going to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Pricelists`.

Reviewer 2: Adjusting guis here– 
> navigate to the pricelists page

Since we are not actively on the pricelist page (not showing on the screen), it does not get a guilabel

> from the :guilabel:`Settings` page

The page title says "Settings" and not "Sales Settings" :)

```suggestion
After activating the :guilabel:`Discounts` feature, navigate to the pricelists page, either by
clicking the :guilabel:`Pricelists` link from the :guilabel:`Settings` page, or by going to
:menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Pricelists`.
```

On the :guilabel:`Pricelists` page, select the desired pricelist to edit. On the pricelist form,

> click into the :guilabel:`Configuration` tab. In the :guilabel:`Configuration` tab, at the bottom,
> a :guilabel:`Discounts` section is now available.

Reviewer 2: Early line break
```suggestion
click into the :guilabel:`Configuration` tab. In the :guilabel:`Configuration` tab, at the bottom, a
:guilabel:`Discounts` section is now available.
```

.. image:: pricing/configuration-discount-options.png
   :align: center
   :alt: What the discount options are on the configuration tab of a pricelist in Odoo Sales.

The options available in this section are:

- :guilabel:`Discount included in the price`: shows the customer only the final price with the
  discount already included.
- :guilabel:`Show public price & discount to the customer`: shows the customer the public price
  *and* the discount they're earning.

Customer pricelist application
==============================

While the default pricelist applied to any customer is the :guilabel:`Public Pricelist`, Odoo
provides the opportunity to directly apply a different pricelist to customers on their contact form.

> To do that, open the desired customer's contact form, either by navigating to
> :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Customers` and selecting the customer from the main
> :guilabel:`Customers` page, or by clicking on the customer's name on a sales order.

Reviewer 2: Early line break
```suggestion
To do that, open the desired customer's contact form, either by navigating to :menuselection:`Sales
app --> Orders --> Customers` and selecting the customer from the main :guilabel:`Customers` page,
or by clicking on the customer's name on a sales order.
```

.. image:: pricing/customer-detail-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Sample customer detail form in Odoo Sales.

On the desired customer's contact form, under the :guilabel:`Sales & Purchase` tab, in the

> :guilabel:`Sales` section, designate what pricelist should be applied to this specific customer
> from the drop-down menu in the :guilabel:`Pricelist` field.

Reviewer 2: Early line break
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Sales` section, designate what pricelist should be applied to this specific customer from
the drop-down menu in the :guilabel:`Pricelist` field.
```

option, after enabling the :guilabel:`Pricelists` feature on the *Sales* app setting page
(:menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration --> Settings`), and click :guilabel:`Save`.

Next, apply pricelists to specific products using the product form. Navigate to the
:menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Products` and select the product for which multiple
prices should be applied. Selecting a product from the :guilabel:`Products` page reveals that
specific product's product form on a separate page.

On the product form, click the :guilabel:`Extra Prices` smart button, located at the top of the
form.

.. image:: pricing/extra-prices-smartbutton.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the extra prices smart button appears in Odoo Sales.

Doing so reveals a separate page displaying the :guilabel:`Price Rules` that are specific to that
particular product. Here, price rules can be edited or created at any time.

.. image:: pricing/price-rules-product-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the extra price rules per product page appears in Odoo Sales.

To create a new price rule for a product from this specific :guilabel:`Price Rules` page, click

> :guilabel:`New` to add a new, customizable row that has  the desired product already populated in
> the :guilabel:`Applied On` column.

Reviewer 2: Remove extra space
```suggestion
:guilabel:`New` to add a new, customizable row that has the desired product already populated in the
:guilabel:`Applied On` column.
```

Next, select which :guilabel:`Pricelist` this specific product price rule should apply to, via the
drop-down menu in the :guilabel:`Pricelist` column.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Public Pricelist` is the default pricelist used with Odoo *Sales* and *eCommerce*.

.. tip::
   To create a new pricelist from this page, type in the desired name of the new pricelist in the
   :guilabel:`Pricelist` column, then select :guilabel:`Create` from the drop-down menu. All
   pricelists can be modified at any time, by navigating to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products
   --> Pricelists`. Pricelists can also be created on that specific :guilabel:`Pricelists` page, as
   well.

> After the desired pricelist is added to the row, designate a :guilabel:`Min. Quantity` for the
> price rule.

Reviewer 2: Early line break
```suggestion
After the desired pricelist is added to the row, designate a :guilabel:`Min. Quantity` for the price
rule.
```

   column will be applied to orders of 2 or more products. So, in theory, if a single product costs
   $100, customers can be encouraged to buy more, if the :guilabel:`Price` is set at $85 per product
   for a :guilabel:`Min. Quantity` of `2` products.

Next, enter the desired amount in the :guilabel:`Price` column. Then, if needed, enter a
:guilabel:`Start Date` and :guilabel:`End Date` for the product's price rule.

And lastly, if working in a multi-company environment, select to which company this price rule
should be applied in the :guilabel:`Company` field. Leaving this field blank means the price rule
applies for all companies in the database.

Click away from the row to activate Odoo's auto-save capability, meaning that newly-created price
rule is now ready to be used.

Proceed to add as many unique price rules per product as desired. There is no limit to how many
price rules can be added per product.

With the price rule(s) in place for a specific product, customers who fall into those corresponding
pricelists automatically see those new prices applied. The number of price rules applied to a

> particular product are also displayed in the :guilabel:`Extra Prices` smart button, located on
> every product form.

Reviewer 2: Early line break
```suggestion
particular product are also displayed in the :guilabel:`Extra Prices` smart button, located on every
product form.
```

.. note::
   When a price rule/pricelist is added to a product via the :guilabel:`Extra Prices` smart button,
   it is also reflected on the pricelist itself. Similarly, when a price rule for a specific product
   is added to a pricelist, it is also reflected on the product form via the :guilabel:`Extra
   Prices` smart button.

.. _sales/advanced-price-rules:

Advanced price rules
====================

The :guilabel:`Advanced price rules (discounts, forumlas)` pricelist feature provides the option to
set price change rules based on discounts and formulas. These changes can be relative to the product
list/catalog price, the product's cost, or another pricelist.

> To use advanced pricing rules, with discounts and forumlas, select the :guilabel:`Advanced price

Reviewer 2: Typo
```suggestion
To use advanced pricing rules, with discounts and formulas, select the :guilabel:`Advanced price
```

> rules (discounts, forumlas)` option, after enabling the :guilabel:`Pricelists` feature on the

Reviewer 2: Typo
```suggestion
rules (discounts, formulas)` option, after enabling the :guilabel:`Pricelists` feature on the
```

*Sales* app setting page (:menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration --> Settings`), and click
:guilabel:`Save`.

After activating and saving that :guilabel:`Pricelists` feature, the :guilabel:`Settings` page
reloads and, from here, either select the :guilabel:`Pricelists` link (beneath the
:guilabel:`Pricelists` feature on the :guilabel:`Settings` page), or navigate to
:menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Pricelists`.

Either option reveals the :guilabel:`Pricelists` page, in which pricelists can be created and/or
modified at any time.

From the :guilabel:`Pricelists` page, select a desired pricelist to modify, or create a new
pricelist by clicking the :guilabel:`New` button.

> On the pricelist form, under the :guilabel:`Price Rules` tab, click :guilabel:`Add a line`
> to add an advanced price rule. Doing so reveals a :guilabel:`Create Pricelist Rules` pop-up form,
> in which the advanced rule is configured.

Reviewer 2: Early line break
```suggestion
On the pricelist form, under the :guilabel:`Price Rules` tab, click :guilabel:`Add a line` to add an
advanced price rule. Doing so reveals a :guilabel:`Create Pricelist Rules` pop-up form, in which the
advanced rule is configured.
```

.. image:: pricing/create-pricelist-rules-popup.png
   :align: center

>    :alt:  How the create pricelist rules pop-up form looks in Odoo Sales.

Reviewer 2: Remove extra space and add caps :)
```suggestion
   :alt: How the Create Pricelist Rules pop-up form looks in Odoo Sales.
```

Price computation
-----------------

On this form, first choose one of the three :guilabel:`Computation` options:

- :guilabel:`Fixed Price`: the price computation is based on a fixed price.
- :guilabel:`Discount`: the price computation is based on a discount.
- :guilabel:`Formula`: the price computation is based on a formula.

.. note::
   Each :guilabel:`Computation` option reveals its own computation-specific fields on the form.

> If :guilabel:`Fixed Price` is selected, enter the desired price in the :guilabel:`Fixed Price`
> field below. If :guilabel:`Discount` is selected, enter the desired discount percentage in the

Reviewer 2: Early line break
```suggestion
If :guilabel:`Fixed Price` is selected, enter the desired price in the :guilabel:`Fixed Price` field
below. If :guilabel:`Discount` is selected, enter the desired discount percentage in the
```

should be noted that a mark-up can be applied by setting a negative discount in this field.

.. example::
   To formulate a 100% markup (or 2 times the cost of the product), with a $5 minimum margin, set
   the :guilabel:`Based on` field to :guilabel:`Cost`, the :guilabel:`Discount` to `-100`, and the
   :guilabel:`Margins` to `5`. This is often seen in retail situations.

   .. image:: pricing/formula-markup-cost-example.png
      :align: center
      :alt: How it looks to formulate a markup cost with 5 dollar minimum margin in Odoo Sales.

Then, in the :guilabel:`Extra Fee` field, specify a fixed amount to add (or subtract) to the amount
calculated with the discount. After that, enter a desired figure in the :guilabel:`Rounding Method`
field. The rounding method sets the price so that it is a multiple of the value in the field.

.. note::
   Rounding is applied *after* the discount and *before* the surcharge.

.. tip::
   To have prices that end in 9.99, set the :guilabel:`Rounding Method` to `10` and the
   :guilabel:`Extra Fee` to `-0.01`.

Lastly, specify the minimum amount of margin over the base price in the :guilabel:`Margins` field.

> Once all formula-related configurations are complete, Odoo provides an example of the formula in
> a blue block to the right of the configurations.

Reviewer 2: Early line break
```suggestion
Once all formula-related configurations are complete, Odoo provides an example of the formula in a
blue block to the right of the configurations.
```

On the :guilabel:`Pricelists` page, select the desired pricelist to edit. On the pricelist form,
click into the :guilabel:`Configuration` tab. In the :guilabel:`Configuration` tab, at the bottom,
a new :guilabel:`Discounts` section is now available.

.. image:: pricing/configuration-discount-options.png
   :align: center
   :alt: What the discount options are on the configuration tab of a pricelist in Odoo Sales.

The options available in this section are:

- :guilabel:`Discount included in the price`: shows the customer only the final price with the
  discount already included.
- :guilabel:`Show public price & discount to the customer`: shows the customer the public price
  *and* the discount they're earning.

Customer pricelist application
==============================

While the default pricelist applied to any customer is the :guilabel:`Public Pricelist`, Odoo
provides the oppportunity to directly apply a different pricelist to customers on their contact
form.

To do that, open the desired customer's contact form, either by navigating to
:menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Customers` and selecting the customer from the main

> :guilabel:`Customers` page, or by clicking on the customer's name on a _saleste reveals that customer's contact form.

Author: complete, super strange typo, indeed! hahah so weird!

- :guilabel:`All Products`: the advanced pricelist rule will be applied to all products.
- :guilabel:`Product Category`: the advanced pricelist rule will be applied to a specific category
  of products.
- :guilabel:`Product`: the advanced pricelist rule will be applied to a specific product.
- :guilabel:`Product Variant`: the advanced pricelist rule will be applied to a specific product
  variant.

If any of those options, apart from :guilabel:`All Products`, are selected, a new option-specific
field appears, in which the specific :guilabel:`Product Category`, :guilabel:`Product`, or
:guilabel:`Product Variant` must be chosen.

Then, select a minimum quantity to be applied to the advanced pricelist rule in the :guilabel:`Min.
Quantity` field. Lastly, select a range of dates for the pricelist item validation in the
:guilabel:`Validity` field.

Once all configurations are complete, either click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to save the advanced
pricelist rule, or click :guilabel:`Save & New` to immediately create another advanced pricelist
rule on a fresh form.

.. note::
   If a price rule is set for a particular product, and another one for its product category, Odoo

>    takes the rule of the product itself. Make sure at least one pricelist item covers all products.

Reviewer: I'm confused by this last sentence, "Make sure at least one pricelist item covers all products." I don't understand why that would be necessary. It's okay for pricelists to only include some particular products and not have a rule for all products. I think you could delete this sentence?

> Show discount percentage to customers

Reviewer: This section was moved up to the "Configuration tab" section, so you can delete it from the end of the doc here :)
